well howdy there internet people lisbo
again
so today we're going to talk about a
what a climate study
can teach us about how the media can
manufacture a narrative
or back up a narrative that they've
already put in place
we're going to do this because i had a
couple people asking me about a new
climate study
and like they can't figure out if it's
good news or bad news
because of the reporting so i'm like
okay
so i go look at the study the study's
really clear um the abstract well not
the abstract the abstract is actually
really confusing
the plain language version down at the
bottom that's really clear
basically since 1979 we've had a range
of how much we expect to warm 1.5
to 4.5 degrees celsius that's been the
expected range and this is based on
how much carbon dioxide is in the air
and it doubling
um a lot's happened since 1979
they have new methodology they have a
more accurate range
the new range is 2.6 to 3.9 degrees
celsius
for americans that's like 5 to 7 degrees
ish
so if you're a news outlet
and you're wanting to paint a picture
that is favorable to your side
you can report on this
by saying hey the we're all going gonna
fry
the best case scenarios that they're all
off the table
or you can say climate alarmists all
those doomsday scenarios we're not gonna
go extinct
both of these are kind of true now it
should be noted this is the most
likely range at 66 percent
um there's a 66 percent chance it'll
fall
within this range the further away from
the range you get the less of a chance
so you can paint this as good news
or bad news and
it's it's accurate in the sense of that
statement
is true however it doesn't tell the
whole story
doesn't even come close and when i
looked at some of the reporting
most of them chose you know good news or
bad news
and then they mentioned the other part
but it was kind of an afterthought it
certainly wasn't part of the headline
so what is it is it good news or is it
bad news
uh first thing to note is this is
assuming we
act and we do something about climate
change
the other part to this is 2.6 to 3.9
degrees
3 degrees that's a disaster movie
that's the colorado river running dry at
times sections of the planet becoming
uninhabitable
it's not good but hey
we probably won't go extinct
which i mean that's always good you know
but again that's assuming we act um
at the end of the day the real lesson
here is
a lot like that video earlier
if you get a quote just a small quote
from the media
or they're interpreting a study for you
make sure you go look at it
if it's something you care about if it's
something that's important to you make
sure you go look at it
because they can paint a picture
that is factually accurate
but it's not true and that's what
a lot of outlets did with this at the
end of the day
this is not great news but it's also not
going to change climate
policy really the goal was to keep it
below 2 degrees
that seems really unlikely but it should
still be the goal
you know we don't want to we don't want
to bump up
the goal um simply because it's less
likely to happen
that should be what we're striving for
because even at two degrees
we're gonna fill it
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day